Butters has made appearances since "Cartman Gets an Anal Probe", though initially as a background character. He gets his first speaking role in the Season Two episode, "Roger Ebert Should Lay off the Fatty Foods", and he receives another speaking role in the following episode. He later receives a speaking role in South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut.

Butters was seen sporadically in seasons three through five, going from a social pariah in "Two Guys Naked in a Hot Tub" to mean-spirited bully in "Hooked on Monkey Fonics".

In the episode "Jared Has Aides" Butters was adopted by Stan Marsh, Kyle Broflovski, and Eric Cartman as their fourth friend when Kenny McCormick died "permanently" at the end of the fifth season. The writers had given Butters his own spotlight episode as the season five finale to prepare fans for Butters taking Kenny's place on the show. The episode, titled "Butters' Very Own Episode", gave Butters a complicated back story where his father was outed as being a closet bisexual and his mother attempted to drown her son Butters in a fit of madness. They all made up at the end of the episode and nothing came of it.

Butters found himself as the new fourth friend, being put down and treated like a total outcast by his new friends. Kyle, Stan, and Cartman all openly bullied Butters, telling him how he's not cool like Kenny. Cartman in particular took perverse pleasure in making Butters suffer, to the extent that, in "Jared Has Aides", he pretended to be Butters on the phone and bad-mouthed his parents, just so he could watch them abusing him. Several instances show the boys having Butters dress up as Kenny or simply call him Kenny or Not-Kenny, possibly to cope with their loss.

Butters would remain on as the fourth member of the gang for four more episodes; two of the episodes continued the plot of Butters being abused but downplayed it and in the case of "Freak Strike", ending the episode just as Butters was about to be beaten (with Cartman being beaten up instead). Ultimately, in the sixth episode of season six, "Professor Chaos", Butters is expelled from the group for being "too lame" and adopts his super-villain alter ego "Professor Chaos" as a means to get revenge against the group and society for rejecting him. Butters would run around for several episodes as Professor Chaos, only to have no one care much about his plots since many of them had, though Butters didn't realize it, already occurred on episodes of the animated series The Simpsons. Butters would eventually reveal his secret identity of Professor Chaos to Stan, although he mistook it for Butters coming out of the closet.

Though not anymore a member of the main four's group, Butters was nevertheless kept as a prominent member of the boys' extended circle. Though he has returned, Kenny's role has declined to an extent due to lack of ideas for the character and Butters has taken on a more prominent role again. Despite their ill-treatment toward him, Butters stays loyal to his friends, perhaps in hopes that they'll accept him. In a way, this has worked as recently there seems to have been some shift in the balance of friendship. The most obvious case of this being in the episode "Tsst", where Butters is calmly playing along with Stan, Kyle and Kenny, with Cartman being much more alienated than usual, as well as in "Casa Bonita", where Kyle decides to take Butters with him on his birthday to Casa Bonita instead of Cartman, implying he likes Butters more than Cartman. It's been said that Kyle despises Cartman because of his cruel, sadistic and selfish attitudes, as well as his prejudice—especially towards the Jews.

Despite their history, Butters has recently taken on the role as Cartman's sidekick. Cartman often takes advantage of Butters' kindness and desire to be accepted in order to fulfill his schemes. Cartman hurts and betrays Butters quite often, however, Butters continues to trust him unconditionally. Despite this, Butters got even in "AWESOM-O", where he filmed Cartman dancing, dressed up as Britney Spears, later showing it to South Park Elementary's various students and faculty.