Eric Theodore Cartman, often referred to just by his surname,[1] is a main character in the animated television series South Park, created by Matt Stone and Trey Parker, and voiced by Parker. Cartman is one of four central characters in South Park, along with Stan Marsh, Kyle Broflovski, and Kenny McCormick. Cartman first appeared, originally in prototypical form in a 1992 animated short Jesus vs. Frosty, and a 1995 animated short Jesus vs. Santa, and first appeared on television in the pilot episode of South Park, "Cartman Gets an Anal Probe", on August 13, 1997.

Cartman is an elementary school student who lives with his mother in the fictional town of South Park, Colorado, where he routinely has extraordinary experiences atypical of a small town. Cartman has been portrayed as aggressive, prejudiced, arrogant and narcissistic since his character's inception; Stone and Parker describe the character as "a little Archie Bunker". In later seasons, particularly following the episode "Scott Tenorman Must Die", the character begins to exhibit extremely psychopathic, sociopathic and manipulative behavior, and is also depicted as highly intelligent, able to execute morally appalling plans and business ideas to get success.

Cartman is considered to be the most popular and famous character on South Park.[2][3][4] Parker and Stone state that he is their favorite character, and the one with whom they most identify. South Park has received both praise and criticism for Cartman's politically incorrect behavior. Prominent publications and television channels have included Cartman on their lists as one of the most iconic television and cartoon characters of all time.
Cartman attends South Park Elementary as part of Mr. Garrison's class. During the show's first 58 episodes, Cartman and the other main characters are in the third grade, after which they move on to the fourth grade. He is raised as an only child by Liane Cartman, a promiscuous single mother. In "Cartman's Mom Is Still a Dirty Slut" (1998), Liane is said to be a hermaphrodite and the father of Cartman who did not know the woman who gave birth to Cartman.[5] However, the season 14 (2010) episode "201" later reveals that Liane is his mother, and that his true biological father is Jack Tenorman, a fictional former player for the Denver Broncos whom Cartman arranged to be killed in the season five (2001) episode "Scott Tenorman Must Die", making Cartman and Scott Tenorman half-brothers.[6]

Among the show's main child characters, Cartman is distinguished as "the fat kid",[7] and his obesity is a continuing subject of insults and ridicule from other characters throughout the show's run.[8] Cartman is frequently portrayed as an antagonist or villain whose actions set in motion the events serving as the main plot of an episode.[9] Other children and classmates are alienated by Cartman's insensitive, racist, xenophobic, anti-semitic, anti-communist, lazy, self-righteous behavior,[10][11][12][13][14] but are occasionally influenced by his obtrusive, manipulative, and propagandist antics.[15]

Kyle, who is Jewish, is often the target of Cartman's slander and anti-Semitic insults. The two have shared an enmity since the show's beginnings, and their rivalry has become significantly more pronounced as the series has progressed, with Cartman even routinely exposing Kyle to physical endangerment. For instance, in "Tonsil Trouble," Cartman deliberately infected Kyle with HIV.[7][16] Kyle has intentionally endangered Cartman as well by convincing him in "Fatbeard" to go to Somalia in hopes that he will be killed. Their rivalry stems from opposition in personalities. Where Kyle is restrained by firm morals, Cartman would rather indulge in pleasure, and goes out of his way to hurt others.

However, Kyle is sometimes an enthusiastic participant in Cartman's schemes and Cartman is sometimes seen treating Kyle well, although this is generally to put aside their hatred momentarily for a common goal, or for manipulation.[17] Parker and Stone have compared the relationship to the one shared by Archie Bunker and Michael "Meathead" Stivic on the 1970s sitcom All in the Family. Kyle has a tendency to make what he thinks are safe bets with Cartman, and often loses these bets when the improbable actions promised by Cartman are accomplished. Cartman's motivation in this regard is not merely monetary gain, but an obsession with scoring a victory over Kyle, a fixation that ultimately plays a major part in a subplot to the three-part episode "Imaginationland" (season 11, 2007).[7] This obsession has also proven itself to trump other goals Cartman wishes to achieve, for instance, in "Christian Rock Hard" Cartman makes a bet with Kyle that he can make a platinum album before Kyle can. After recruiting Butters and Token, Cartman creates a Christian rock band called Faith+1 and "writes" Christian songs by merely taking love songs and replacing words such as "baby" with "Jesus" (and which thereby humorously imply sexual relations with Jesus). Against all odds, the band becomes largely successful, managing to sell over a million copies (and potentially gain millions of dollars). However, since Christian rock bands cannot truly get a platinum album (which is not true in real life), Cartman loses the bet. Despite having amassed a large fan base as well as a large, steady income, Cartman only becomes enraged since he was unable to win a bet with Kyle. Careless in his anger accepting the Myrrh album in front of a large Christian crowd, Cartman goes into an anti-Christian rant which drives away all of the fans as well as profits. Cartman has also been shown to have a high sadistic streak towards Kyle. He has repeatedly expressed desire in seeing him suffer.[18] He has also shown to enjoy Kyle's suffering and humiliation to the extremes.[19] In "You're Getting Old", the final episode of the first half of South Park's 15th season, it is suggested that Kyle and Cartman may be developing a genuine friendship, possibly due to the void left by Stan's apparent departure. This soon withers away as both return to the status quo of arch enemies at the end of "Ass Burgers", due to Kyle realizing the repulsive way Cartman was producing his burgers. Cartman's resentment of Stan is usually reserved for when Cartman proudly proclaims his hatred for both Stan and Kyle as a duo, and his contempt for Stan as an individual is usually limited to his annoyance with Stan's sensitivity, affection for animals, and relationship with Wendy Testaburger.[20]

Despite being intolerant of other cultures, Cartman displays an aptitude for learning foreign languages. In the episode "My Future Self n' Me" when he starts "Parental Revenge Corp", he speaks Spanish to his Latino workers, though he may have learned the language in order to better exploit a labor pool. He also knows German, and once spoke a few phrases while dressed up as Adolf Hitler while promoting the extermination of Jews to an oblivious audience that did not speak German. Cartman can also be seen speaking broken German with an American accent in Season 15 Episode 2 "Funnybot". Conversely in one episode ("Major Boobage") Cartman acts as an Oskar Schindler character for the town's cats, a rare case of a subplot based on Cartman's altruism.

Cartman frequently teases Kenny for being poor, and derides Kenny's family for being on welfare,[21] despite the fact (revealed in The Poor Kid) that Cartman is the second-poorest child in the school and (revealed in Here Comes the Neighborhood) that his family collects welfare from the government as well. For the first several seasons, his family's income comes exclusively from welfare programs and his mother's work as a prostitute; later, Liane takes an unspecified legitimate day job as well. Based on Cartman's depicted lifestyle and Liane's assertion that they are "not much poorer than any other family" it is likely that the household makes somewhat more money than Eric believes, and only appear poorer based on Butters's search of tax records because Liane does not report her prostitution income.

Cartman will use an awkward pause during a conversation as an opportunity to casually remind Kenny that he hates him.[22] Cartman's mischievous treatment of Butters , and the relationship the duo shares, has received significant focus in the more recent seasons of the series.[7] This reflects Parker's interest; the scenes between the two are the ones he most enjoys writing.[23]

Several episodes concern Cartman's greed and his get-rich-quick schemes, although his numerous attempts to attain wealth generally fail.[9] His extreme disdain for hippies serves to satirize the counterculture of the 1960s and its influence in contemporary society,[24] reflecting Parker's real-life antipathy towards hippies.[25] Though the role is customarily taken by Stan or Kyle, Cartman will occasionally be the one to reflect on the lessons learned during the course of an episode with a speech that often begins with "You know, I've learned something today...".[26]